- [Instructor] Now that we've explored the structure
of a Gradle project and the Gradle wrapper,
let's focus on the build script.
To help us with that,
I'm going to import our project into Eclipse.
So I'll go to file, then import.
And then within the Gradle folder,
I'll select Existing Gradle Project and hit next.
Then I'll need to navigate to our app sub project,
which is located within the sandbox project
inside of the exercise files.
So once you're there, go ahead and hit open,
and then click on finish to import the project into Eclipse.
Inside the structure of our sub project,
we'll find the build.gradle file.
Let's go ahead and open that so we can see how
the Gradle DSL helps us establish our build.
A Gradle build script defines a set of tasks
that need to be run as part of our build for a project.
Most tasks come from plugins that we include within the
build script, like the application plugin that you see here.
By default, this plugin adds the Java plugin into the build,
which provides tasks that help with things
like compilation, testing, and packaging
of our Java application.
This functionality comes right out of the box
with the plugin, so it's kind of hard to see
all of the tasks just by looking at our build script.
Let's head over to the terminal to help us with that.
Here, I'll use the Gradle wrapper and the task task
to see all of the tasks that are available within our build.
Okay, so you can see it's quite the list.
Let's scroll up and check out a few of these.
There's the run task, which we're familiar with.
We've also used the build task some as well.
Now if we scroll down, we'll start to see the tasks
that are provided by the Java plugin.
Here's two that compile our Java source code
and the test for the project.
If we'd like to see every plugin in our build,
we can use a bit of Groovy to access them.
So I'm going to use the project object.
And on it, we'll find the plugins property.
Here, I can iterate through each of them.
And then inside of a closure,
I'll print out each plugin to the console.
Okay, let's go ahead and we'll save that,
and then we'll head back to the terminal where I'll use
the Gradle wrapper in order to kick off our build.
And there you can see it prints all the plugins
that are available to our build.
Let's talk about a few of these.
The base plugin is extended by every other plugin.
There you see the Java plugin we talked about
and the application plugin as well.
These plugins are the core plugins
that are provided by Gradle.
That allows us to access them using a short name.
So instead of using the fully qualified name for the
application plugin, if we look in our Gradle build script,
you'll notice we can use the short name, application.
We can include third-party plugins in our build as well.
To find those, we use the Gradle plugin portal.
All you need to do is type the name of the plugin
that you'd like to find.
In this case, I'm going to look for the taskinfo plugin.
It provides us some additional information
about the tasks within our Gradle project.
So I'll go ahead and search for it,
and there you can see it.
Let's navigate into the information for the plugin,
and here you can see we get the fully qualified plugin ID.
All we need to do is copy this and then take it over
to our build script.
Within the build script,
we'll place it within the plugins closure,
then we'll save our build.gradle file.
And now if we navigate back to the terminal,
we can execute the task task again.
Now you'll notice that three additional tasks
from the plugin have been included
and made available for our build.
When setting up a Gradle build, it's common to add
third-party plugins into our build script.
That way, we can access additional tasks within our build.